well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
juries and freezing and apparently being
into it we're gonna do this because I
got a message from somebody in Australia
who was having like a friendly debate
and one of my videos about fight flight
or freeze
I guess helped in the debate somehow
there was something else in the message
though that I didn't know was occuring
and after hearing that it was I kind of
feel obligated to talk about something
and clarify something about acute stress
responses you know most people and if
you're eligible to serve on a jury
please watch this whole thing most
people are very familiar with fight or
flight they know what that is okay
freeze not so much it's a little bit
more ambiguous they all come from the
same place you know people chalk it up
to oh well freeze means you're scared
well so does fight-or-flight
you've perceived a threat a danger of
some kind and you get a biological
response it gives you adrenaline and
gives you pain inhibitors all kinds of
stuff to help you if you have to fight
to help you if you have to run you know
that's what it's there for
freeze is also part of this set of acute
stress responses the people who really
study this have three reasons that
freeze exists that I'm aware of there
may be more I'll be honest one of them I
don't really buy but people who know a
whole lot more about it than I do some
of them believe it so maybe take my
opinion with a grain of salt and that's
that it's like playing possum playing
dead hoping the threat will go away I
don't actually think that's part of it
but there are a whole lot of people who
do and who like that is their area of
study the two that I'm certain of are
are a little different one is that
basically your decision-making process
is getting overwhelmed
you've perceived this threat and there's
so much information coming in you don't
know if you can please safely or if you
can win the fight
so it's fight or flight on pause you
know your body is preparing and trying
to figure out what to do you're trying
to process the information and you get
stuck in a new de Loup observe orient
decide act
I just realized I've never done a video
on OODA loops that's coming soon but so
you you get stuck your decision-making
process just just breaks down it may
actually be hampered by the amount of
adrenaline because you're pulling in so
much extra information that you would
normally discard and it makes making the
decision harder now that's one one
reason another separate reason is if the
event is traumatic and there really is
no way out not that you can't figure out
what you want to do but you cannot flee
safely and you cannot fight off the
threat something bad is gonna happen and
you freeze you disassociate accept your
fate kind of thing the pain inhibitors
that allow you to ignore the thorns
cutting your feet as you run help there
too because something bad is gonna
happen to you it helps dull that pain so
in an extremely traumatic situation
freezing is normal it's something that's
going to happen especially if there's no
way out
or you can't perceive a way out freezing
is normal it's a biological response and
yeah you can train and train and train
and you can help overcome it
but you really can't control it it's
you can help manage it but it's still
going to happen even if you're very well
trained okay so why am I talking about
all of this because in the message it
was disclosed that there are defense
attorneys who are well she didn't have
the my clients skin under her
fingernails she didn't cry out and using
this as a way to imply while she was
really into it and just changed her mind
later or he was really into it and just
changed his mind later that's wrong
that's wrong an absence of evidence does
not imply that they were into it that
that's just wrong in fact if they
completely froze because it was so
traumatic because their client is guilty
that's exactly what they we did they
wouldn't have skin under their
fingernails because they wouldn't have
fought back
they wouldn't have cried out out of fear
they would have disassociated I just
think that's really important because
that is a bad faith argument that is
apparently being made in courtrooms
that if you're going to be on a jury you
need to know that that because the
prosecution may not always have the
right witness to come in this is a
biological response succumbing to a
biological response should not mean that
the attacker goes free
failing to fight back in a sufficient
manner I guess I don't even know what
that is that that that could be simply
succumbing to freeze in a biological
response that we are hardwired for so I
just I felt obligated to kind of put
that information out there anyway it's
just a thought y'all y'all have a good
day